Let's talk about what I call the activity card,
and this is a really simple way to represent a chunk or unit of work.
First the name, in this case it's Project,
but it could be a project, an activity, a task or whatever makes sense for you.
Next comes the start date, when should this activity start?
This is our planned start date.
Then in the lower left corner, the goal and the customer.
So this chunk of work ties the goal or requirement 1.
1, so we can thread it, that is,
we know how it is aligned to the business at all times.
I can look back at my notes of my requirements and
tie it right back to the business.
And so I know who the real business customer or owner is,
I say /CEO, in this case.
Oh boy, the CEO is driving this one, probably pretty important.
Then upper right would be the end date.
So I have my start date on the left, my end date on the right.
These are the planned start and the planned end.
And lastly I have budget, and in this case I'm saying 80 hours,
but you could make it maybe more agile, like small,
medium, large, or whatever makes sense for you.
So be creative, adapt to your own needs,
but I like this idea of an activity card,
and you can make it any way you want to.
You'll see on the next slide on how I use these activity cards,
that might give you some other ideas or insights on how you may want to
make mine better or evolve it to suite your needs.
Now let's continue with the activity card model here,
looking at the priority chart.
So we have priorities 1 and 2 and our backlog,
as we described before,
and then we're going to list out our IT projects or
activities with activity cards.
But in this example I'm going to add color to my
cards to give even more meaning.
So on the left, if the card is green it'll be an on track project,
yellow - a little behind, blue - ahead, great progress,
red - we have issues, let's talk about those,
and lastly gray - not started.
So for an example in column 1 priority, Priority 1,
I have three activities going.
I have a project, an operational task and another project.
So quickly to the eye I can see I have one on track,
one a little behind, and one a little ahead,
I can easily look at each one and see start date and end dates.
I can easily see which requirement or goal it ties to,
like the engineering one on the bottom, Project 1.
1.
2, the blue one.
It's tied to a business driver, 2.
3 and it belongs to engineering, and it's a budget of around 120 hours.
So it's very, very simple to look at this and see what's going on.
In fact,
not only is it easy for executives to look at or other
steering group or people of business origin,
it's also very easy for your team to see what's important and what to work on.
I can come in the morning and look at that and go hey,
this is what I may need to do, or you can use this as a tool for a daily standup,
to realign your team each morning to make sure
they're working on the right thing.
Now Priority 2 I have Activity 2.
3 and Project 1.
1.
3.
Now how I work with my team is everyone's working on priority 1 items,
but there'll be times when I'm waiting for a phone call or I have a really
bad bug and I need to talk with someone to help me fix it,
I'm going to maybe drop to priority 2 to start working on some of those until
the road blocks are complete to continue with priority 1.
Now in the backlog I have, at this time,
one project, project, I'm going to call it just Project 3.
And each morning we'll look at priority 1,
priority 2, see how our progress is going,
what we're working on, how is it,
and maybe a priority 2 project moves into the backlog because the customer says
hey not as important as project 3 and we move that forward.
So every day I like to look at the projects and activities,
where are we and what are we working on?
This is very, very simple.
Now remember what executives just don't want to see?
It was this.
So would you rather look at this?
Or would you rather look at this?
So the point, again, is to make something easy to understand,
not only to your team,
but more importantly to the business leaders of the company so it's very
easy to see what you're doing and how you're tying your work to the
business and how you set up your priorities. This is so key and fundamental to your new job as a manager of IT.